README.md, before:

# pixelcrush

> Crush those pixels! A "place" clone that uses proof of work.

This project is an online shared canvas where you can draw individual pixels.

It is inspired by various other projects:
- Reddit's [r/place](https://www.reddit.com/r/place/), which is no longer active. The intended rate-limiting of 6 seconds or something was quickly circumvented.
- A simplistic [clone by @rbxb](https://github.com/rbxb/place), which is [still active](https://pl.g7kk.com/ace)), and allows up to 8 pixels per second (or 0.125 seconds per pixel).
- And of course [pixelflut](https://github.com/defnull/pixelflut), which embraces flooding and botting. Thus, it usually only runs "locally" during a party or congress. [Seizure warning.](https://media.ccc.de/v/pixelflut-eh15).

This project approaches the topic of ratelimiting differently: Proof of work. If you want to set a
pixel, you have to provide a nonce that results in a better (here: higher) hash. Initially, all
pixels have a rather low diffculty, and finding a "better" nonce is easy. However, as time goes on
and the pixel is overwritten again and again, and thus the difficulty goes up and up, it becomes
harder to find a better nonce.

TODO: Play along with the [fancy web interface!](example.com)

## Table of Contents

- [Usage](#usage)
- [TODOs](#todos)
- [NOTDOs](#notdos)
- [Contribute](#contribute)

## Usage

### Watch

You can retrieve the [current state, as a PNG](https://gebirge.uber.space/place.png). Keep in mind
that this is a place that the internet can manipulate, and contents do not necessarily reflect my
own opinions. I reserve the right to wipe anything that I wish.

### Getting started

Usage: `./example/putpixel.py X Y R G B`

Simple, isn't it? This way, you can paint individual pixels. It's written in python, and not particularly convenient, clever or fast. However, it demonstrates how something like this can be used.

Here's how an example run looks like:

```
$ time ./putpixel.py 100 100 255 0 0
Trying to beat hash b'\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00' for payload b'd\x00d\x00\xff\x00\x00' ...
Submitting (100, 100, 255, 0, 0) with hash b'\xa6\x84kb\x04\xdao\xe1\x17\xa8\xa9\xa1\xc3\x84\x1a\xc0x\\\x9c\x81\xeat\xeb\x18\xafz; \xa6\xdb\x11.' ...
Trying to beat hash b'\xff\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00' for payload b'd\x00d\x00\xff\x00\x00' ...
  100 unsuccessful attempts
Submitting (100, 100, 255, 0, 0) with hash b'\xff\x8cPt\\\xdb@\x05\x19\xfe\x00D\x1bpw\x18Ol\n\xad\xbf-\xdb\xfd\xd7Pc\x10\xb1\xc96O' ...

real	0m0,177s
user	0m0,152s
sys	0m0,021s
```

### Writing your own

The API is as simple as I could possibly make it:

Just POST some bytes to `https://gebirge.uber.space/post`. Which bytes? Well, X, Y, R, G, B, nonce, and hash:
- X and Y are 2 bytes each, little-endian, and must be less than 1024 (the size of the image)
- R, G, B: Single bytes
- Nonce: Any 16 bytes that you like.
- Hash: The SHA-256 of the previous 23 bytes. (32 bytes)

The server will respond with any of:
- HTTP 400, wrong number of bytes
- HTTP 400, bad coordinates
- HTTP 400, bad hash
- HTTP 409, "conflict": The server provides the 32 bytes of the "better" hash, so you can immediately use it to find better candidates. Better luck next time.
- HTTP 200: Game on! :D

Come over to [TODO: MAKE AND PUBLISH WEB INTERFACE] to try it out! :D

### Other API

Other endpoints are:
- `GET /place.png`: Returns a nice PNG of the current RGB data. Isn't it nice? :D
- `GET /heatmap.png`: Returns a nice PNG representing a heatmap of the difficulty of all pixels. The color indicates how many leading ones are required: The gradient goes black (0-4) to red (15) to yellow (30) to white (45) to blue (60), and then sharply becomes magenta (>= 61). Thanks @rbxb, who [suggested it](https://github.com/BenWiederhake/pixelcrush/issues/1)! :D
- `POST /post`: This also accepts multiple "pixel posting" requests. This is especially useful when you have precomputed a lot of pixels and would like to blit them all to the server. The server will respond with an empty HTTP 200 if all of the posts were successful, OR with HTTP 409 and as many hashes as you "pixel post" requests. Each hash is the current best that the server knows for each pixel. You can detect which "pixel post" requests were successful by checking whether the current hash is the same hash that you posted (= successful), or a better one (= unsuccessful, conflict).
- `POST /row_hardness`: You provide two bytes (y-coordinate), and the server responds with 32K worth of hashes; one for each pixel in the row. Feel free to use this to optimize your hashing efforts! This way you don't have to make 1024*1024 calls to `/post`
- `POST /save`: Can be used by the administrator to save the current state (RGB data + hardness) to a new file.
- `POST /overwrite_pixel`: Can be used by the administrator to forcibly overwrite a single pixel. This is useful to erase nasty stuff. The helper `./example/overwritepixel.py` might be handy.

## TODOs

* Some web interface to interact with it
* Maybe websockets to see updates in real-time?

## NOTDOs

Here are some things this project will definitely not support:
* Anything "blockchain"y
* Any tracking

## Contribute

Feel free to dive in! [Open an issue](https://github.com/BenWiederhake/pixelcrush/issues/new) or submit PRs.

Commit message:

Making setup easier
* added requirements for easy installation, added instructions for that in the README.md, added Pycharm related folder to .gitignore
* additions to gitignore
* Formatting

Co-authored-by: Ben Wiederhake <BenWiederhake.GitHub@gmx.de>

README.md, after:

# pixelcrush

> Crush those pixels! A "place" clone that uses proof of work.

This project is an online shared canvas where you can draw individual pixels.

It is inspired by various other projects:
- Reddit's [r/place](https://www.reddit.com/r/place/), which is no longer active. The intended rate-limiting of 6 seconds or something was quickly circumvented.
- A simplistic [clone by @rbxb](https://github.com/rbxb/place), which is [still active](https://pl.g7kk.com/ace)), and allows up to 8 pixels per second (or 0.125 seconds per pixel).
- And of course [pixelflut](https://github.com/defnull/pixelflut), which embraces flooding and botting. Thus, it usually only runs "locally" during a party or congress. [Seizure warning.](https://media.ccc.de/v/pixelflut-eh15).

This project approaches the topic of ratelimiting differently: Proof of work. If you want to set a
pixel, you have to provide a nonce that results in a better (here: higher) hash. Initially, all
pixels have a rather low diffculty, and finding a "better" nonce is easy. However, as time goes on
and the pixel is overwritten again and again, and thus the difficulty goes up and up, it becomes
harder to find a better nonce.

TODO: Play along with the [fancy web interface!](example.com)

## Table of Contents

- [Usage](#usage)
- [TODOs](#todos)
- [NOTDOs](#notdos)
- [Contribute](#contribute)

## Usage

### Watch

You can retrieve the [current state, as a PNG](https://gebirge.uber.space/place.png). Keep in mind
that this is a place that the internet can manipulate, and contents do not necessarily reflect my
own opinions. I reserve the right to wipe anything that I wish.

### Getting started

#### Installation

All required packages are listed in requirements.txt. Running `pip install -r requirements.txt` will complete the setup, 
assuming an up-to-date Python 3 installation. 


#### Usage

`./example/putpixel.py X Y R G B`

Simple, isn't it? This way, you can paint individual pixels. It's written in python, and not particularly convenient, clever or fast. However, it demonstrates how something like this can be used.

Here's how an example run looks like:

```
$ time ./putpixel.py 100 100 255 0 0
Trying to beat hash b'\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00' for payload b'd\x00d\x00\xff\x00\x00' ...
Submitting (100, 100, 255, 0, 0) with hash b'\xa6\x84kb\x04\xdao\xe1\x17\xa8\xa9\xa1\xc3\x84\x1a\xc0x\\\x9c\x81\xeat\xeb\x18\xafz; \xa6\xdb\x11.' ...
Trying to beat hash b'\xff\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00' for payload b'd\x00d\x00\xff\x00\x00' ...
  100 unsuccessful attempts
Submitting (100, 100, 255, 0, 0) with hash b'\xff\x8cPt\\\xdb@\x05\x19\xfe\x00D\x1bpw\x18Ol\n\xad\xbf-\xdb\xfd\xd7Pc\x10\xb1\xc96O' ...

real	0m0,177s
user	0m0,152s
sys	0m0,021s
```

### Writing your own

The API is as simple as I could possibly make it:

Just POST some bytes to `https://gebirge.uber.space/post`. Which bytes? Well, X, Y, R, G, B, nonce, and hash:
- X and Y are 2 bytes each, little-endian, and must be less than 1024 (the size of the image)
- R, G, B: Single bytes
- Nonce: Any 16 bytes that you like.
- Hash: The SHA-256 of the previous 23 bytes. (32 bytes)

The server will respond with any of:
- HTTP 400, wrong number of bytes
- HTTP 400, bad coordinates
- HTTP 400, bad hash
- HTTP 409, "conflict": The server provides the 32 bytes of the "better" hash, so you can immediately use it to find better candidates. Better luck next time.
- HTTP 200: Game on! :D

Come over to [TODO: MAKE AND PUBLISH WEB INTERFACE] to try it out! :D

### Other API

Other endpoints are:
- `GET /place.png`: Returns a nice PNG of the current RGB data. Isn't it nice? :D
- `GET /heatmap.png`: Returns a nice PNG representing a heatmap of the difficulty of all pixels. The color indicates how many leading ones are required: The gradient goes black (0-4) to red (15) to yellow (30) to white (45) to blue (60), and then sharply becomes magenta (>= 61). Thanks @rbxb, who [suggested it](https://github.com/BenWiederhake/pixelcrush/issues/1)! :D
- `POST /post`: This also accepts multiple "pixel posting" requests. This is especially useful when you have precomputed a lot of pixels and would like to blit them all to the server. The server will respond with an empty HTTP 200 if all of the posts were successful, OR with HTTP 409 and as many hashes as you "pixel post" requests. Each hash is the current best that the server knows for each pixel. You can detect which "pixel post" requests were successful by checking whether the current hash is the same hash that you posted (= successful), or a better one (= unsuccessful, conflict).
- `POST /row_hardness`: You provide two bytes (y-coordinate), and the server responds with 32K worth of hashes; one for each pixel in the row. Feel free to use this to optimize your hashing efforts! This way you don't have to make 1024*1024 calls to `/post`
- `POST /save`: Can be used by the administrator to save the current state (RGB data + hardness) to a new file.
- `POST /overwrite_pixel`: Can be used by the administrator to forcibly overwrite a single pixel. This is useful to erase nasty stuff. The helper `./example/overwritepixel.py` might be handy.

## TODOs

* Some web interface to interact with it
* Maybe websockets to see updates in real-time?

## NOTDOs

Here are some things this project will definitely not support:
* Anything "blockchain"y
* Any tracking

## Contribute

Feel free to dive in! [Open an issue](https://github.com/BenWiederhake/pixelcrush/issues/new) or submit PRs.
